Protocols:
  =>a set of rules for formatting and processing data.
Networks: 
  =>a group of devices that share resources and are connected over a network
OSI=>Open Systems Interconnection
   *represents an easy and intuitive way to standardize the different parts required to communicate across networks
PACKETS:
It is a formatted unit of data that is sent over a network, such as the internet, in telecommunications and computer networking.
Packets are made up of two parts: a header and a payload
Header: Contains information about the packet, such as its origin and destination IP addresses, sequencing information, and error detection codes 
Payload: The actual data being sent.
7 types
1.PHYSICAL
2.DATA LINK
3.NETWORK
4.TRANSPORT
5.SESSION
6.PRESENTATION
7.APPLICATION
SDN=> SOFTWARE DEFINED NETWORKING
  *Technology which allows more layers of the hardware to be implemented via software
layer 7=>APPLICATION LAYER:
The business logic and functionality of the application lies here.
  Examples of Layer 7 Applications:

1.HTTP ("Hypertext Transfer Protocol") - Enables us to access web applications
2.FTP ("File Transfer Protocol") - Allows users to transfer files
3.SNMP ("Simple Network Management Protocol") - Protocol to read and update network device configurations.
There are many applications which uses these protocols like Google Chrome, Microsoft Skype and FileZilla.

Layer 6:PRESENTATION LAYER
It is responsible of adapting, transforming and translating data.
            *Encoding Schemes used to represent text and data, for example ASCII(American Standard Code for Information Interchange) and UTF(Unicode Transformation Format).
            *Encryption for services, for example SSL ("Secure Sockets Layer") and TLS ("Transport Security Layer")
            *Compression, for example GZip in use in many implementations of HTTP.
Layer 5-SESSION LAYER
      It involves establishing, maintaining and terminating connections, otherwise referred to as sessions
Layer 4=>TRANSPORT LAYER
   The layer which allows applications to be represented on the network.
     *TCP ("Transmission Control Protocol") - Used for many applications, ensuring stability, control of how much data can be sent at any given time, reliability and more.
     *UDP ("User Datagram Protocol") - Lightweight and quick protocol use for many services.
      *QUIC ("Quick UDP Internet Connections") - A protocol designed for faster connections and goes hand-in-hand with the version 2 of the HTTP protocol
LAYER 3=>NETWORK
     A layer responsible of routing packets between networks via routers.

On this layer, the following protocols reside:

IP ("Internet Protocol") - Used everyday when accessing the Internet. Comes in two versions, IP version 4 and 6.
ICMP ("Internet Control Message Protocol") - Used by network devices and network operators, to diagnose network connections or for devices to send and respond to error conditions and more.
IPSec ("Internet Protocol Security") - Allows encrypted and secure connections between two network devices.

LAYER 2=> Link layer

Ethernet - An essential protocol used by most operating systems when connecting to networks using a physical cable.
Wi-Fi ("Wireless Fidelity") - For accessing networks via radio signals. It uses a family of protocols called IEEE 802.11.xx
NDP ("Neighbor Discovery Protocol") - IP version 6(IPv6) uses this protocol on the Link Layer to gather information required to communicate via IPv6.

LAYER 1-PHYSICAL
  CAN Bus ("Controller Area Network") - Used in microcontrollers and other devices to communicate to other similar devices, not involving a computer. Often used in ICS ("Industrial Control Systems").
  Ethernet Physical Layer - Used by Ethernet on the physical layer to send signals with speeds up to many gigabits of traffic per second.
  Bluetooth Physical Layer - Bluetooth also has its own specifications on how radio signals should be sent and received.

IP=>The Internet Protocol



   
